FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID
SYNTHESIS SCREENING
A product of the
FAST TRACK ACTION COMMITTEE ON
SYNTHETIC NUCLEIC ACID PROCUREMENT SCREENING
of the
NATIONAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL
Revised: September 2024
2024Version 1: April 2024FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
– i –
About the National Science and Technology Council
The National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) is the principal means by which the Executive
Branch coordinates science and technology policy across the diverse entities that make up the Federal
research and development enterprise. A primary objective of the NSTC is to ensure that science and
technology policy decisions and programs are consistent with the President's stated goals. The NSTC
prepares research and development strategies that are coordinated across Federal agencies aimed at
accomplishing multiple national goals. The work of the NSTC is organized under committees that
oversee subcommittees and working groups focused on different aspects of science and technology.
More information is available at http://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/nstc.
About the Office of Science and Technology Policy
The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) was established by the National Science and
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 to provide the President and others within
the Executive Office of the President with advice on the scientific, engineering, and technological
aspects of the economy, national security, homeland security, health, foreign relations, the
environment, and the technological recovery and use of resources, among other topics. OSTP leads
interagency science and technology policy coordination efforts, assists the Office of Management and
Budget with an annual review and analysis of Federal research and development in budgets, and serves
as a source of scientific and technological analysis and judgment for the President with respect to major
policies, plans, and programs of the Federal Government. More information is available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp.
About the Fast Track Action Committee on Synthetic Nucleic Acid
Procurement Screening
The NSTC established this Fast Track Action Subcommittee in 2023 to develop a framework for nucleic
acid synthesis screening, pursuant to Section 4.4(b)(i) of Executive Order 14110 of October 23, 2023,
“Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence.”
Copyright Information
This document is a work of the United States Government and is in the public domain (see 17 U.S.C.
§105). It may be distributed and copied with acknowledgment to OSTP. Published in the United States
of America, 2024.FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
– ii –
NATIONAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL
Chair
Arati Prabhakar, Director, Office of Science
and Technology Policy
Executive Director
Kei Koizumi, Acting Executive Director,
National Science and Technology Council,
Principal Deputy Director for Policy, OSTP
FAST TRACK ACTION COMMITTEE ON SYNTHETIC NUCLEIC ACID
PROCUREMENT SCREENING
Co-Chairs
Gopal Sarma, Office of Science and Technology Policy
Daniel Gastfriend, National Security Council
Chandresh (Chan) Harjivan, Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response Policy
Advanced Research Projects Agency for
Health
Administration for Strategic Preparedness
and Response
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Department of Agriculture
Department of Commerce
Department of Defense
Department of Energy
Department of Health and Human Services
Department of Homeland Security
Department of Justice
Department of Labor
Members
Department of State
Department of Transportation
Environmental Protection Agency
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Food and Drug Administration
Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity
National Institutes of Health
National Institutes of Standards and Technology
National Science Foundation
Office of the Director of National Intelligence
United States Agency for International DevelopmentFRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
3
Abbreviations and Acronyms
APNSA Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
BSAT Biological Select Agents and Toxins
CCL Commerce Control List
CISA Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
CRO Contract Research Organization
FSAP Federal Select Agent Program
FBI Federal Bureau of Investigation
HHS Department of Health and Human Services
NSTC National Science and Technology Council
NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology
ORCID Open Researcher and Contributor ID
OSTP Office of Science and Technology Policy
SOC Sequence of Concern
WMD Weapons of Mass DestructionFRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
4
I. INTRODUCTION
In October 2023, President Biden issued a landmark Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and
Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence (“Executive Order”). In section 4.4(b), the
Executive Order directs the federal government to reduce the risks of misuse of synthetic nucleic acids
and improve associated biosecurity measures. The Executive Order requires that OSTP develop a
framework to encourage providers of synthetic nucleic acid sequences to implement comprehensive,
scalable, and verifiable synthetic nucleic acid procurement screening mechanisms. As the building
blocks for life, nucleic acids underpin much of research and development in the life sciences, thereby
serving as a critical control point allowing industry to ensure beneficial usage and minimize the risk of
misuse.
This framework outlines a unified process for screening purchases of synthetic nucleic acids and
benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment. While the framework will be incorporated into
requirements for recipients of federal research funding, including through domestic and international
funding documents, broader use of the framework is encouraged. This approach guides providers of
synthetic nucleic acids (“Providers”) and manufacturers of benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment
(“Manufacturers”) to screen purchase orders to identify sequences of concern (SOCs) and assess
customer legitimacy.
In support of this framework, as directed by section 4.4.(b)(ii) of the Executive Order, the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) will engage with industry and relevant stakeholders to
further develop and refine specifications for effective nucleic acid synthesis procurement screening;
best practices for managing SOC databases to support such screening; technical implementation
guides for effective screening; and conformity-assessment best practices and mechanisms.
This framework incorporates and supplements portions of the Screening Framework Guidance for
Providers and Users of Synthetic Nucleic Acids, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, October
2023, and its accompanying Companion Guide (collectively, “2023 HHS Guidance”).
As described in Section II, federal funding agencies will, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
law, require that procurement of synthetic nucleic acids and benchtop nucleic acid synthesis
equipment using federal life sciences funding be conducted through Providers and Manufacturers that
adhere to this framework. To adhere to this framework, Providers and Manufacturers should take the
following six actions for such procurement, consistent with the 2023 HHS Guidance and the Executive
Order section 4.4(b)(iii):
1) Attest to implementing this screening framework through a statement that either is posted
on a public website or provided to the federally funded customer and federal funding agency
upon request;
2) Screen purchase orders for synthetic nucleic acids to identify SOCs;
3) Screen customers submitting purchase orders of synthetic nucleic acids with SOCs, and
purchase orders of benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment, to verify legitimacy;FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
5
4) Report potentially illegitimate purchase orders of synthetic nucleic acids involving SOCs or
of benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment;
5) Retain records relating to purchase orders for synthetic nucleic acids and benchtop nucleic
acid synthesis equipment; and
6) Take steps to ensure cybersecurity and information security.
II. ROLE OF FEDERAL FUNDING AGENCIES
The Executive Order requires that all agencies that fund life sciences research will, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, establish that, as a requirement of funding, synthetic nucleic acid
procurement for federally funded research is conducted through Providers or Manufacturers that
adhere to the framework.1 This requirement will take effect for all purchases of synthetic nucleic acids
and benchtop nucleic synthesis equipment that take place on or after April 26, 2025.
Federal funding agencies will establish these requirements under statutory and regulatory authorities
applicable to them, such as through terms and conditions of awards. Federal funding agencies will work
with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA) and the Director of OSTP to
coordinate the process of reviewing such funding requirements to facilitate consistency in
implementation of the framework across funding agencies.
This framework complements existing federal statutes, regulations, and policies, and does not
supersede any federal statutory or regulatory authority. Nothing in this framework impairs or otherwise
affects the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary,
administrative, or legislative proposals. In rare cases, federal funding agencies may encounter
circumstances that require an exception to this framework. The heads of federal funding agencies may
issue exceptions to the requirements in this framework on a case-by-case basis when needed to address
health or national security priorities, in consultation with the Director of OSTP and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation.
III. SCOPE
This framework applies to federally funded life sciences research involving the procurement of all types
of synthetic nucleic acids – including but not limited to DNA and RNA, whether single- or doublestranded, as well as whole organism genomes (e.g., viruses, bacteria) – containing any synthetic SOC.
It also applies to federally funded life sciences research involving the procurement of any benchtop
equipment capable of synthesizing nucleic acids.
This framework applies to the distribution by Providers of synthetic nucleic acids, including by
biofoundries, cloud labs, institutions with core nucleic acid synthesis facilities, and contract research
organizations (CROs) or laboratories with integrated nucleic acid synthesis capabilities. This
framework also applies to the distribution by Manufacturers of benchtop equipment to synthesize
1 See Section 4.4(b)(iii), Executive Order. This includes research funded or sponsored by grants, contracts, cooperative
agreements, and other agreements and transactions.FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
6
nucleic acids. To be adherent to this framework, Providers and Manufacturers should also ensure the
framework is followed when a third-party vendor or other intermediary is involved.
IV. DEFINITIONS
The 2023 HHS Guidance provides definitions for the following terms, which are reproduced or adapted
here:
Table 1: Basic Definitions Used in the Framework for Nucleic Acid Synthesis Screening
Term Definition
Benchtop nucleic
acid synthesis
equipment
Benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment sold by Manufacturers that is
intended to be used to synthesize nucleic acids for use within a research
laboratory or within an institution. While this nucleic acid synthesis
equipment may not be small enough to be placed on a benchtop (e.g., it sits
on the laboratory floor), it is still considered benchtop equipment if it is sold
with the intent that it will be used by researchers individually or in a core
facility in an institution.
Customer The individual or entity (such as an institution) that orders or requests
synthetic nucleic acids from a Provider, or that purchases nucleic acid
synthesis equipment from a Manufacturer.
Manufacturer An entity that produces and distributes benchtop equipment for synthesizing
nucleic acids. Manufacturers may provide equipment to a customer or thirdparty vendor.
Provider An entity that synthesizes and distributes synthetic nucleic acids. Providers
may provide nucleic acids to a customer or third-party vendor. A Provider is
understood to be synthesizing and distributing nucleic acids as a
transactional service, rather than as a research scientist collaborating with a
colleague.
Sequence of
Concern (SOC)
At the time of this framework’s issuance, a nucleotide sequence or its
corresponding amino acid sequence that is a Best Match to a sequence of
federally regulated agents (i.e., the Biological Select Agents and Toxins List
(BSAT), or the Commerce Control List (CCL)), except when the sequence is
also found in an unregulated organism or toxin. As of and after October 13,
2026, this definition will include sequences known to contribute to
pathogenicity or toxicity, even when not derived from or encoding regulated
biological agents (see Screening Framework below).FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
7
Synthetic nucleic
acids subject to
screening
At a minimum, DNA or RNA, single- or double-stranded, 200 nucleotides
(including the corresponding amino acid sequence, if applicable) or longer
should be screened for SOCs. As of October 13, 2026, this screening window
will be decreased to 50 nucleotides, and Providers should implement
screening mechanisms that detect the potential for shorter nucleotides to be
assembled into SOCs when multiple synthetic nucleic acids are ordered by
the same customer in a bulk order or for multiple orders over time (see
Screening Framework below).
Third-party vendor An entity that orders synthetic nucleic acids from Providers and distributes
them or their constructs, with or without reformulation. Also, an entity that
orders benchtop equipment for synthesizing nucleic acids from
Manufacturers and distributes them.
Verifying legitimacy Review of information that would allow Providers and Manufacturers to
authenticate the recipient of synthetic nucleic acids containing SOCs or
benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment as a legitimate member of the
scientific community.
This framework additionally specifies that the term Provider includes the following non-traditional
types of providers:
Table 2: Definitions of Non-Traditional Providers of Synthetic Nucleic Acids
Non-Traditional
Types of Providers
Definition
Biofoundry A centralized facility that provides a high degree of automation and
infrastructure to support the engineering and scalable manufacturing of
biological systems including nucleic acid sequences or that utilizes biological
systems to produce molecules and nucleic acid sequences.
Cloud Lab A highly automated research laboratory possessing a diversity of analytical
and synthesis capabilities across the life sciences and that can be remotely
operated by specifying experimental protocols via software.
Core Facility /
Academic Core
Facility
An institution-based capability that either facilitates orders to third parties or
that has in-house equipment intended to provide services to faculty and
research staff at that university or others and not otherwise to customers
from the general public (e.g., the ability to create nucleic acid sequences de
novo from benchtop synthesizers).FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
8
Contract Research
Organization (CRO)
An organization that provides research and development services to
companies in the life sciences, typically related to clinical trials and drugdevelopment.
V. SCREENING FRAMEWORK
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers and Manufacturers should meet the following criteria:
1) Attest to implementing this screening framework through a statement that is either posted
on a public website or provided to the federally funded customer and federal funding agency
upon request
As indicated above, per the requirements of the Executive Order, federal funding agencies will require
that procurement of synthetic nucleic acids and benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment using
federal life sciences funding be conducted through Providers and Manufacturers that attest to adhering
to this screening framework. To adhere to this framework, a Provider and Manufacturer should either
post on a public webpage a statement that self-attests to following each of the criteria in this
framework, or provide such a statement to the federally funded customer and the federal funding
agency upon request.
To adhere to this framework, the Provider or Manufacturer should (i) ensure that the attestation is
signed by an individual with the authority to respond on behalf of the organization; (ii) provide point of
contact information; (iii) update the attestation by January 1st of each year, or more frequently if pointof-contact information changes; and (iv) expressly commit in the attestation that, if they cease to
adhere to the framework, they will notify, within 72 hours, any federally funded customers and federal
funding agencies to which they previously submitted an attestation.
Following the release of this framework, OSTP anticipates coordinating development of a standardized
template statement that Providers and Manufacturers may use for this purpose, if they wish.
2) Screen purchase orders for synthetic nucleic acids to identify any sequences of concern (SOCs)
To adhere to this screening framework, a Provider screens purchase orders for synthetic nucleic acids
to identify any SOC pursuant to the 2023 HHS Guidance. All nucleotide sequences or corresponding
amino acid sequences that are Best Matches to a sequence of federally regulated agents – i.e., the
Biological Select Agents and Toxins (BSAT) list or, for international orders, the Commerce Control List
(CCL)2 – are SOCs, except when the sequence is identical to a sequence found in an unregulated
organism or toxin.3
2 A Best Match approach, or equivalent screening mechanism, should identify scattered mutations which no longer make the
screening window an exact match for a SOC. Nucleic acid sequence that encode proteins should be screened across all
applicable reading frames (i.e., 3 for single-stranded nucleic acids and 6 for double-stranded nucleic acids).
3 Synthetic nucleic acids containing a screening window that is a Best Match to a BSAT agent or – for international orders – a
CCL agent contain a SOC if the window is a Best Match to a window from a regulated agent but is not an equivalent matchFRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
9
Notwithstanding the above, Providers may still be adherent to the Framework if they identify
“exempted sequences” that qualify as SOCs but pose no known pathogenic or toxicity risk. Providers
are not required to verify customer legitimacy for such exempted sequences, as described in the
following section. To adhere to the Framework, Providers should only exempt sequences from genes
from non-viral agents with functions that cannot reasonably be construed as contributing to
pathogenicity or toxicity (e.g., sequences from genes that encode bacterial or fungal DNA gyrase,
ribosomal RNA, or hexokinase). Exempted SOCs should not include any sequences from federally
regulated viruses. In addition, the exempted SOCs should not include sequences that could restore or
enhance the virulence of an attenuated excluded strain of a regulated agent on the BSAT list. Providers
should refer to the Export Administration Regulations, administered by the Department of Commerce,
Bureau of Industry and Security, to determine if a SOC requires a license for export. Providers may also
contact the Export Counseling Division of the Office of Exporter Services (ECDOEXS@bis.doc.gov) for
additional information.
Synthetic nucleic acids should be screened over each 200 nucleotide window within their sequences for
SOCs (see below for changes that will take effect on October 13, 2026).4,5 Providers or Manufacturers
conducting this screening may determine which commercial services, open source solutions, or inhouse developed algorithms and software systems to use to make this determination. Where available,
standards from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) should be applied to
determine that the mechanism used by each entity is sufficient.
To adhere to this screening framework on and after October 13, 2026 (three years after the 2023 HHS
Guidance was issued), Providers should implement the following additional practices. First, Providers
should reduce the size of the screening window and screen each 50 nucleotide window for SOCs.6
Second, Providers should apply screening methods that detect the potential for shorter nucleotide
sequences to be assembled into SOCs when multiple synthetic nucleic acids are ordered by the same
customer in a bulk order or in multiple orders over time.7 Third, Providers should make efforts to
implement a mechanism to screen additional SOCs known to contribute to pathogenicity or toxicity,
to a window from an unregulated agent. For instance, nucleotides 96942 – 97156 from horsepox virus (DQ792504) are
identical to nucleotides 76415 – 76629 from variola virus (NC_001611.1) and windows over this region of the variola virus
genome are not SOCs under this definition.
4 Screening should take place over each 66 amino acid and/or 200 nucleotide window. The screening should be applied
across all applicable reading frames for nucleotide sequences that encode proteins (i.e., 3 for single-stranded nucleic
acids and 6 for double-stranded nucleic acids).
5 Screening over windows in synthetic nucleic acid orders will identify a SOC that has been appended onto a larger harmless
sequence in an attempt to mask the SOC.
6 Screening should take place over each 16 amino acid and/or 50 nucleotide window. The screening should be applied across
all applicable reading frames for nucleotide sequences that encode proteins (i.e., 3 for single-stranded nucleic acids and
6 for double-stranded nucleic acids).
7 In these cases, multiple synthetic nucleic acids should be considered in total using a short sequence alignment software
package. If the resulting ungapped alignment of any constituents of a customer's order(s) is a Best Match to any SOC, and
if these sequences are constructed to allow their ligation to form these SOCs (i.e., overlaps are present to support the
construction of a larger nucleic acid sequence, which itself is a SOC), Providers or Manufacturers should consider those
orders as containing SOCs.FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
10
even when not derived from or encoding regulated biological agents.8 Providers and Manufacturers
conducting screening may determine which commercial services, open-source solutions, or in-house
developed algorithms and software systems to use to make this determination, and should undertake
efforts to measure the effectiveness of this new screening criteria and improve screening over time. As
part of ongoing review and updates to this framework, an OSTP-designated interagency group will
assess the scientific state of the art before October 13, 2026 and recommend any updates to this
framework if necessary.
The following criteria may inform which sequences should be designated as SOCs:
• Scientific evidence establishing that the sequence contributes to pathogenicity or toxicity in
humans and animals.
• Degree to which this sequence is likely to be recognized as a candidate for misuse, based on
the extent to which its function is widely known.
• Ease with which this sequence could be misused, for example through de novo assembly of a
pathogen or insertion into a backbone.
To adhere to this screening framework on and after October 13, 2026, Manufacturers should integrate
into benchtop nucleic acid synthesizers the capability to screen sequences for SOCs, meeting the
standards as outlined in the 2023 HHS Guidance. As described in the 2023 HHS Guidance, this level of
screening should be on par with the SOC screening best practices recommended for Providers in this
framework, including screening against SOC databases, when available, that are updated regularly as
new SOCs are identified as a required step before synthesizing the sequence, in a verifiable manner.9
Following the release of this framework, NIST will support the development of technical standards10
that will inform an OSTP-designated interagency group that will consider and recommend updates to
this framework every two years, or as appropriate. This group will work to provide additional guidance,
as needed, to support implementation of an expanded SOC definition prior to October 13, 2026. These
updates will be informed by advances in the state of the art including:
• Scientific evidence of sequences contributing to pathogenicity.
• Improvements in ability to identify sequences that are functionally equivalent to SOCs.
• Advances in predictive modeling that allow for assessments of novel or unknown sequences.
• Algorithmic approaches for sequence screening that do not explicitly utilize a pathogen
reference database or sequentially evaluate multiple reading frames.
8 Pathogenicity or toxicity that threatens human and animal health. SOCs include sequences for which a direct and harmful
impact on a host has been verified based on published experimental data; and, where experimental data do not exist,
based on homology to a sequence encoding a verified function.
9 Here, verifiability means the ability to confirm that every prospective sequence has been screened for SOCs against an upto-date database, and screening is up to date and performant; when users input sequences of concern, this is flagged and
reported in real time; and attempts to tamper with the equipment to avoid screening are flagged and reported in real
time.
10 See Section 4.4(b)(ii), Executive Order.FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
11
3) Screen customers who submit purchase orders of synthetic nucleic acids with SOCs, and of
benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment, to verify legitimacy
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers and Manufacturers should assess customer risk by
following the 2023 HHS Guidance and industry standard “know your customer” practices. As noted in
the 2023 HHS Framework, this includes assessing customer identity for all orders, such as point-ofcontact name, institution, address, and contact information, and verifying customer legitimacy for
orders containing SOCs. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Provider may still be adherent to
this Framework without verifying customer legitimacy for exempted SOCs as described in the preceding
section.
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers should develop and implement a process to assess
the legitimacy of orders that have been identified by the sequence screening protocol as containing a
SOC. The legitimacy of an order is determined by verifying the legitimacy of both the individual
customer placing the order and their institution.
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers and Manufacturers should confirm the legitimacy of
the individual customer by ensuring that the person (or customer) placing an order has no red flags,11
is affiliated with a legitimate institution, and has a legitimate need for using synthetic nucleic acids.
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers and Manufacturers should confirm the legitimacy of
the institution by verifying its legal standing and that it has a life sciences-oriented mission and
purpose, or uses synthetic nucleic acids for other relevant applications,12 and ensuring there are no red
flags.13
To adhere to this screening framework, at a minimum, Providers should include a field or mechanism
in their ordering system where customers can self-identify that an order contains a SOC. When an order
does contain a SOC, Providers should also include a mechanism for customers to provide information
that will be useful for verifying the customer’s legitimacy.14 In addition, Providers should ask customers
if they are the end user for the SOCs or if the order will be passed along to a third party(s), in which case
the legitimacy of the third party(s) should also be assessed.
To adhere to this screening framework, Manufacturers should develop and implement a process to
assess the legitimacy of orders for their equipment, such as through verified user accounts. As stated
above, the legitimacy of an order is determined by verifying the legitimacy of both the individual
11 As defined in the 2023 HHS Guidance including its Companion Guide.
12 Such as DNA storage or other emerging applications of synthetic biology.
13 As defined in the 2023 HHS Guidance and discussed in its Companion Guide.
14 While other types of information may also be useful for verifying customers’ legitimacy—as determined by individual
Providers and Manufacturers—a mechanism for providing at least the following information should be included:
proposed end user of the order, institutional or corporate affiliation (if applicable), the name of a biosafety officer (if
available), documentation of internal review and approval of the research, evidence provided by the recipient’s
Responsible Official that the recipient is registered with the Federal Select Agent Program (FSAP) or Statement by
Ultimate Consignee and Purchaser (i.e., a completed BIS-711 form, if applicable), other evidence of a legitimate research
or training program (e.g., publication history, researcher persistent identifiers such as ORCID, business licenses, grant
numbers, research plan) or other legitimate use (e.g., diagnostic test development or manufacture). While all these types
of information are not likely needed to verify individual instances of legitimacy, the opportunity to provide all of them
should be included in ordering materials.FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
12
customer placing the order and their institution—which should include verification that the institution
will cooperate in ensuring that benchtop synthesizers are only accessed by legitimate end users.
Manufacturers should implement mechanisms to track legitimate use of their equipment, including
when it is potentially transferred to a new user during the lifecycle of these equipment. Ensuring that
benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment is only sold to legitimate customers and end users in this
context also includes ensuring that proprietary and sole-use reagents for their benchtop synthesizers15
are only sold to legitimate customers and end users, even if they were not screened for legitimacy when
initially obtaining their benchtop nucleic acid synthesizer (e.g., if they acquired their equipment prior
to the time this framework comes into effect).
4) Report potentially illegitimate purchase orders of synthetic nucleic acids involving SOCs or of
benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers and Manufacturers should develop criteria to
determine when not to fill an order, based on this framework and as informed by the results of sequence
and/or customer screening. In such cases, Providers and Manufacturers should follow the 2023 HHS
Guidance and report flagged orders to relevant authorities, including, where appropriate, to an FBI
Field Office. There are 56 FBI Field Offices across the United States and Puerto Rico. Each FBI Field Office
has a WMD Coordinator. Providers can identify FBI Field Offices using the above link. Flagged orders can
be reported to a Field Office or through FBI’s general hotline for reporting suspicious WMD-related
activity, 855-TELL-FBI (855-835-5324). Providers and Manufacturers may contact the WMD Coordinator
at their respective Field Office to establish a relationship even before a flagged order occurs.
In cases where Providers and Manufacturers suspect that customers may be attempting to violate
federal export control laws, Providers and Manufacturers are encouraged to report such violations to
the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security through its website or by calling the
Enforcement Hotline at 800-424-2980. Cyber incidents can be reported to the Cybersecurity
Infrastructure Security Agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security under the Cyber Incident
Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act.
5) Retain records relating to purchase orders for synthetic nucleic acids and benchtop nucleic
acid synthesis equipment
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers and Manufacturers should follow the 2023 HHS
Guidance and retain for at least three years all screening records, including flagged orders; customer
screening interactions, including when the orders were deemed acceptable; documentation of further
action taken in response to flagged orders; and rationale for decisions about the legitimacy of
customers whose orders were flagged, including where orders contained SOCs. Retained records may
help identify attempts to order components of SOCs from multiple entities for reassembly, and to
15 Reagents that can only be obtained from the manufacturer for their equipment and do not have common applications
other than the operation of their equipment.FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
13
support industry-wide collaborations to identify such orders. Such efforts may become part of future
adherence standards.
6) Take steps to ensure cybersecurity and information security
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers and Manufacturers should follow the practices
outlined in the 2023 HHS Guidance regarding cybersecurity, information security, and securing SOC
databases. As part of screening protocols, Providers and Manufacturers may consult internally or
externally developed SOC databases. SOC databases compiling sequences that have been
experimentally determined to contribute to pathogenicity or toxicity from unregulated agents may
pose potential biosecurity risks, including from entities with malign intent that may attempt to
exfiltrate data for illicit purposes. Therefore, Providers and Manufacturers that develop or maintain a
SOC database with information on sequences from unregulated agents or that aggregate information
that could pose biosecurity risks should implement appropriate cybersecurity safeguards to protect the
information in it, both in transit and at rest, consistent with relevant cybersecurity Executive Orders,
standards, and frameworks.16,17,18,19,20
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers and Manufacturers should also take appropriate
measures to protect their customers’ identities and proprietary information.21 In addition, it is
recommended that Providers and Manufacturers closely examine the security of their supply chains,
following NIST SP 800-161.
To adhere to this screening framework, Providers and Manufacturers that suspect they have been the
victim of a network intrusion, data breach, or ransomware attack should contact their FBI Field Office,
per instructions given above.
To adhere to this screening framework, Manufacturers should design their benchtop nucleic acid
synthesis equipment with security and safety in mind. Manufacturers are encouraged to adhere to the
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency’s Secure by Design principles, which are intended to
encourage the design and manufacturing of products that reasonably protect against exploitation of
product defects.22
16 Standards should align with the Presidential Executive Order 14028 on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity (issued May
12, 2021) and the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014.
17 ISO/IEC 27032:2023 & ISA/IEC 62443
18 https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework
19 https://www.nist.gov/cybersecurity
20 Database administrators should patch systems against known cybersecurity vulnerabilities, in particular patching within
seven days vulnerabilities known to be actively used by threat actors, such as those vulnerabilities listed on the freely
available Known Exploited Vulnerabilities list. Database systems should be developed and deployed such that common
cybersecurity weaknesses, such as improper neutralization of special elements or commands, are prevented
systematically rather than remediated ad hoc.
21 As such, digital ID management of all entities involved in synthetic nucleic acid procurement should comply with NIST SP
800-63
22 Further actions that can demonstrate adherence to the principles are detailed in CISA’s whitepaper entitled “Shifting the
Balance of Cybersecurity Risk: Principles and Approaches for Secure by Design Software.” Manufacturers are also
encouraged to review the FDA document Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of
Premarket Submissions.FRAMEWORK FOR NUCLEIC ACID SYNTHESIS SCREENING
14
VI. UPDATING THE SCREENING FRAMEWORK
This screening framework will be updated based on advances in technologies and screening
mechanisms. OSTP will continue to explore additional ways to promote consistent screening practices
and verification mechanisms, including through the use of independent audits, and will update this
framework as necessary.
